README.md, before:

## Discogs Api

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ricbra/php-discogs-api.png)](http://travis-ci.org/ricbra/php-discogs-api)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/ricbra/php-discogs-api/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/ricbra/php-discogs-api)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/ricbra/php-discogs-api/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ricbra/php-discogs-api)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/ricbra/php-discogs-api/license.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ricbra/php-discogs-api)
[![Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ricbra/php-discogs-api/badges/quality-score.png)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ricbra/php-discogs-api/)

This library is a PHP 7.3 implementation of the [Discogs API v2.0.](http://www.discogs.com/developers/index.html)
The Discogs API is a REST-based interface. By using this library you don't have to worry about communicating with the
API: all the hard work has already be done.

This API is build upon the shoulders of a giant: [Guzzle 7.0](http://guzzle.readthedocs.org/en/latest/). This is an absolutely awesome library.

## License
This library is released under the MIT license. See the complete license in the LICENSE file.

## Installation
Start by [installing composer](http://getcomposer.org/doc/01-basic-usage.md#installation).
Next do:

    $ composer require ricbra/php-discogs-api

## Requirements
PHP >=7.3.0

## Usage
Creating a new instance is as simple as:

```php
<?php

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([]);
```

### User-Agent
Discogs requires that you supply a User-Agent. You can do this easily:

```php
<?php

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([    
    'headers' => ['User-Agent' => 'your-app-name/0.1 +https://www.awesomesite.com'],
]);
```

### Throttling
Discogs doesn't like it when you hit their API at a too high connection rate. Use the <code>ThrottleSubscriber</code> to
prevent getting errors or banned:

```php
<?php

$handler = \GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$throttle = new Discogs\Subscriber\ThrottleSubscriber();
$handler->push(\GuzzleHttp\Middleware::retry($throttle->decider(), $throttle->delay()));

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory(['handler'=>$handler]);
```

#### Authentication

Discogs API allow to access protected endpoints with either a simple [Discogs Auth Flow](https://www.discogs.com/developers/#page:authentication,header:authentication-discogs-auth-flow) or a more advanced (and more complex) [Oauth Flow](https://www.discogs.com/developers/#page:authentication,header:authentication-oauth-flow)

### Discogs Auth

As stated in the Discogs Authentication documentation:
> In order to access protected endpoints, you’ll need to register for either a consumer key and secret or user token, depending on your situation:
> - To easily access your own user account information, use a *User token*.
> - To get access to an endpoint that requires authentication and build 3rd party apps, use a *Consumer Key and Secret*.

~~With the Discogs Php API you can add your credentials to each request by adding a `query` key to your own defaults like this:~~

Instead of `query` use `Authorization` header
```php
$client = ClientFactory::factory([
    'headers' => [
        'Authorization' => "Discogs key=key_here, secret=secret_here",
    ],
]);
```


Authenticate with Personal access token, you can get it from https://www.discogs.com/settings/developers
```php
$client = ClientFactory::factory([
    'headers' => [
        'User-Agent' => $user_agent,
        'Authorization' => "Discogs token={$access_token}",
    ]
]);
```


### OAuth
There are a lot of endpoints which require OAuth. Lucky for you using Guzzle this is peanuts. If you're having trouble obtaining the token and token_secret, please check out my [example implementation](https://github.com/ricbra/php-discogs-api-example).

```php
<?php

$oauth = new GuzzleHttp\Subscriber\Oauth\Oauth1([
    'consumer_key'    => $consumerKey, // from Discogs developer page
    'consumer_secret' => $consumerSecret, // from Discogs developer page
    'token'           => $token['oauth_token'], // get this using a OAuth library
    'token_secret'    => $token['oauth_token_secret'] // get this using a OAuth library
]);
$handler = GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$handler->push($oauth);
$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([
    'handler' => $handler,
    'auth' => 'oauth'
]);
```

### History
Another cool plugin is the History plugin:

```php
<?php

$container = [];
$history = GuzzleHttp\Middleware::History($container);
$handler = GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$handler->push($history);
$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([ 
    'handler' => $handler
]);

$response = $client->search([
    'q' => 'searchstring'
]);

foreach ($container as $row) {
    print $row['request'] -> getMethod(); // GET
    print $row['request'] -> getRequestTarget(); // /database/search?q=searchstring
    print strval($row['request'] -> getUri()); // https://api.discogs.com/database/search?q=searchstring
    print $row['response'] -> getStatusCode(); // 200
    print $row['response'] -> getReasonPhrase(); // OK
}
```

### More info and plugins
For more information about Guzzle and its plugins checkout [the docs.](http://guzzle.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

### Perform a search:
Per august 2014 a signed OAuth request is required for this endpoint.

```php
<?php

$response = $client->search([
    'q' => 'Meagashira'
]);
// Loop through results
foreach ($response['results'] as $result) {
    var_dump($result['title']);
}
// Pagination data
var_dump($response['pagination']);

// Dump all data
var_dump($response->toArray());

```

### Get information about a label:

```php
<?php

$label = $service->getLabel([
    'id' => 1
]);

```

### Get information about an artist:

```php
<?php

$artist = $service->getArtist([
    'id' => 1
]);

```

### Get information about a release:

```php
<?php

$release = $service->getRelease([
    'id' => 1
]);

echo $release['title']."\n";
```

### Get information about a master release:

```php
<?php

$master  = $service->getMaster([
    'id' => 1
]);

echo $master['title']."\n";
```

### Get image

Discogs returns the full url to images so just use the internal client to get those:

```php

$release = $client->getRelease([
    'id' => 1
]);
foreach ($release['images'] as $image) {
    $response = $client->getHttpClient()->get($image['uri']);
    // response code
    echo $response->getStatusCode();
    // image blob itself
    echo $client->getHttpClient()->get($image['uri'])->getBody()->getContents();
}

```

### User Collection

Authorization is required when `folder_id` is not `0`.

#### Get collection folders

```php
<?php

$folders = $service->getCollectionFolders([
    'username' => 'example'
]);
```

#### Get collection folder


```php
<?php

$folder = $service->getCollectionFolder([
    'username' => 'example',
    'folder_id' => 1
]);
```

#### Get collection items by folder

```php
<?php

$items = $service->getCollectionItemsByFolder([
    'username' => 'example',
    'folder_id' => 3
]);
```

### Listings

Creating and manipulating listings requires you to be authenticated as the seller

#### Create a Listing
```php
<?php

$response = $client->createListing([
    'release_id' => '1',
    'condition' => 'Good (G)',
    'price' => 3.49,
    'status' => 'For Sale'
]);
```

#### Change Listing

```php
<?php

$response = $client->changeListing([
    'listing_id' => '123',
    'condition' => 'Good (G)',
    'price' => 3.49,
]);
```
#### Delete a Listing
```php
<?php

$response = $client->deleteListing(['listing_id' => '123']);
```

#### Create Listings in bulk (via CSV)
```php
<?php
$response = $client->addInventory(['upload' => fopen('path/to/file.csv', 'r')]);

// CSV format (example): 
// release_id,condition,price
// 1,Mint (M),19.99
// 2,Near Mint (NM or M-),14.99
```

#### Delete Listings in bulk (via CSV)
```php
<?php
$response = $client->deleteInventory(['upload' => fopen('path/to/file.csv', 'r')]);

// CSV format (example): 
// listing_id
// 123
// 213
// 321
```
## Documentation
Further documentation can be found at the [Discogs API v2.0 Documentation](http://www.discogs.com/developers/index.html).

## Contributing
Implemented a missing call? PR's are welcome! 


[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/ricbra/php-discogs-api/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")

Commit message:

first version 2.0.x of the package calliostro/php-discogs-api

README.md, after:

## Discogs Api

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/calliostro/php-discogs-api.png)](http://travis-ci.com/calliostro/php-discogs-api)
[![Version](https://poser.pugx.org/calliostro/php-discogs-api/version)](//packagist.org/packages/calliostro/php-discogs-api)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/calliostro/php-discogs-api/license)](//packagist.org/packages/calliostro/php-discogs-api)

This library is a PHP 7.3 implementation of the [Discogs API v2.0.](https://www.discogs.com/developers/index.html)
The Discogs API is a REST-based interface. By using this library you don't have to worry about communicating with the
API: all the hard work has already be done.

This API is build upon the shoulders of a giant: [Guzzle 7.0](https://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/latest/). This is an absolutely awesome library.

For the integration of Discogs into Symfony2, see [ricbra/php-discogs-api](https://github.com/ricbra/php-discogs-api), which this is based on.

Thanks also to [AnssiAhola/php-discogs-api](https://github.com/AnssiAhola/php-discogs-api) for porting to PHP 7 and adding more Discos API methods.


## License
This library is released under the MIT license. See the complete license in the LICENSE file.

## Installation
Start by [installing composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/01-basic-usage.md#installation).
Next do:

    $ composer require calliostro/php-discogs-api

## Requirements
PHP >=7.3.0

## Usage
Creating a new instance is as simple as:

```php
<?php

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([]);
```

### User-Agent
Discogs requires that you supply a User-Agent. You can do this easily:

```php
<?php

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([    
    'headers' => ['User-Agent' => 'your-app-name/0.1 +https://www.awesomesite.com'],
]);
```

### Throttling
Discogs doesn't like it when you hit their API at a too high connection rate. Use the <code>ThrottleSubscriber</code> to
prevent getting errors or banned:

```php
<?php

$handler = \GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$throttle = new Discogs\Subscriber\ThrottleSubscriber();
$handler->push(\GuzzleHttp\Middleware::retry($throttle->decider(), $throttle->delay()));

$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory(['handler'=>$handler]);
```

#### Authentication

Discogs API allow to access protected endpoints with either a simple [Discogs Auth Flow](https://www.discogs.com/developers/#page:authentication,header:authentication-discogs-auth-flow) or a more advanced (and more complex) [Oauth Flow](https://www.discogs.com/developers/#page:authentication,header:authentication-oauth-flow)

### Discogs Auth

As stated in the Discogs Authentication documentation:
> In order to access protected endpoints, you’ll need to register for either a consumer key and secret or user token, depending on your situation:
> - To easily access your own user account information, use a *User token*.
> - To get access to an endpoint that requires authentication and build 3rd party apps, use a *Consumer Key and Secret*.

~~With the Discogs Php API you can add your credentials to each request by adding a `query` key to your own defaults like this:~~

Instead of `query` use `Authorization` header
```php
$client = ClientFactory::factory([
    'headers' => [
        'Authorization' => "Discogs key=key_here, secret=secret_here",
    ],
]);
```


Authenticate with Personal access token, you can get it from https://www.discogs.com/settings/developers
```php
$client = ClientFactory::factory([
    'headers' => [
        'User-Agent' => $user_agent,
        'Authorization' => "Discogs token={$access_token}",
    ]
]);
```


### OAuth
There are a lot of endpoints which require OAuth. Lucky for you using Guzzle this is peanuts. If you're having trouble obtaining the token and token_secret, please check out my [example implementation](https://github.com/ricbra/php-discogs-api-example).

```php
<?php

$oauth = new GuzzleHttp\Subscriber\Oauth\Oauth1([
    'consumer_key'    => $consumerKey, // from Discogs developer page
    'consumer_secret' => $consumerSecret, // from Discogs developer page
    'token'           => $token['oauth_token'], // get this using a OAuth library
    'token_secret'    => $token['oauth_token_secret'] // get this using a OAuth library
]);
$handler = GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$handler->push($oauth);
$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([
    'handler' => $handler,
    'auth' => 'oauth'
]);
```

### History
Another cool plugin is the History plugin:

```php
<?php

$container = [];
$history = GuzzleHttp\Middleware::History($container);
$handler = GuzzleHttp\HandlerStack::create();
$handler->push($history);
$client = Discogs\ClientFactory::factory([ 
    'handler' => $handler
]);

$response = $client->search([
    'q' => 'searchstring'
]);

foreach ($container as $row) {
    print $row['request'] -> getMethod(); // GET
    print $row['request'] -> getRequestTarget(); // /database/search?q=searchstring
    print strval($row['request'] -> getUri()); // https://api.discogs.com/database/search?q=searchstring
    print $row['response'] -> getStatusCode(); // 200
    print $row['response'] -> getReasonPhrase(); // OK
}
```

### More info and plugins
For more information about Guzzle and its plugins checkout [the docs.](https://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/latest/)

### Perform a search:
Per august 2014 a signed OAuth request is required for this endpoint.

```php
<?php

$response = $client->search([
    'q' => 'Meagashira'
]);
// Loop through results
foreach ($response['results'] as $result) {
    var_dump($result['title']);
}
// Pagination data
var_dump($response['pagination']);

// Dump all data
var_dump($response->toArray());

```

### Get information about a label:

```php
<?php

$label = $service->getLabel([
    'id' => 1
]);

```

### Get information about an artist:

```php
<?php

$artist = $service->getArtist([
    'id' => 1
]);

```

### Get information about a release:

```php
<?php

$release = $service->getRelease([
    'id' => 1
]);

echo $release['title']."\n";
```

### Get information about a master release:

```php
<?php

$master  = $service->getMaster([
    'id' => 1
]);

echo $master['title']."\n";
```

### Get image

Discogs returns the full url to images so just use the internal client to get those:

```php

$release = $client->getRelease([
    'id' => 1
]);
foreach ($release['images'] as $image) {
    $response = $client->getHttpClient()->get($image['uri']);
    // response code
    echo $response->getStatusCode();
    // image blob itself
    echo $client->getHttpClient()->get($image['uri'])->getBody()->getContents();
}

```

### User Collection

Authorization is required when `folder_id` is not `0`.

#### Get collection folders

```php
<?php

$folders = $service->getCollectionFolders([
    'username' => 'example'
]);
```

#### Get collection folder


```php
<?php

$folder = $service->getCollectionFolder([
    'username' => 'example',
    'folder_id' => 1
]);
```

#### Get collection items by folder

```php
<?php

$items = $service->getCollectionItemsByFolder([
    'username' => 'example',
    'folder_id' => 3
]);
```

### Listings

Creating and manipulating listings requires you to be authenticated as the seller

#### Create a Listing
```php
<?php

$response = $client->createListing([
    'release_id' => '1',
    'condition' => 'Good (G)',
    'price' => 3.49,
    'status' => 'For Sale'
]);
```

#### Change Listing

```php
<?php

$response = $client->changeListing([
    'listing_id' => '123',
    'condition' => 'Good (G)',
    'price' => 3.49,
]);
```
#### Delete a Listing
```php
<?php

$response = $client->deleteListing(['listing_id' => '123']);
```

#### Create Listings in bulk (via CSV)
```php
<?php
$response = $client->addInventory(['upload' => fopen('path/to/file.csv', 'r')]);

// CSV format (example): 
// release_id,condition,price
// 1,Mint (M),19.99
// 2,Near Mint (NM or M-),14.99
```

#### Delete Listings in bulk (via CSV)
```php
<?php
$response = $client->deleteInventory(['upload' => fopen('path/to/file.csv', 'r')]);

// CSV format (example): 
// listing_id
// 123
// 213
// 321
```
## Documentation
Further documentation can be found at the [Discogs API v2.0 Documentation](https://www.discogs.com/developers/index.html).

## Contributing
Implemented a missing call? PR's are welcome!
